README.md, before:

# MongoDB Introduction

MongoDB is No-SQL Database. That means non-relational database - which provides a mechanism of storage and retrival of data records that are not modeled on tabular relations, as used in traditional relational databases.

## Why No-SQL, reasons:
- Many new applications require to create huge volumes of new, custom data types which are mix of structured, semi-structured, unstructured and polymorphic data.
- Application development has changed from **Waterfall Model** (which takes long production times - typically 12-18 months) to new rapid faster methods like Agile Sprints, iterating quickly and pushing code every week or two.
- Purpose of applications has now changed from being targeted at some fraction of users to Service that has to be always up and running(very less downtime.. virtually none); globally accessible to millions of users.
- Organizations now use more open software technologies, commodity servers and cloud computing instead of large monolithic servers and storage infrastructures.

> Relational databases were not designed to be capable of such scale and agility challanges, nor are built to take advantage of commodity storage and processing power avaialble today.


## MongoDB Features:
__Note: Ref: https://www.mongodb.com/what-is-mongodb__

- MongoDB **stores data in flexible, JSON-like documents**, meaning fields can vary from document to document and data structure can be changed over time.
- The document model **maps to the objects in your application code**, making data easy to work with.
- **Ad hoc queries, indexing and real time aggregation** provide powerful ways to access and analyze your data.
- MongoDB is a **distributed database at its core**, so high availability, horizontal scaling and geographic distribution are built in and easy to use.
- MongoDB is **free to use**.


# Next ?


| Topic | Link |
|---|---|
| **Setup on Local Windows Machine** | [Setup](https://github.com/nkpydev/Learning-MongoDB/blob/master/Mongo_Install_Windows.md)|
| **Getting Started with Python + MongoDB** | [Python](https://github.com/nkpydev/Learning-MongoDB/blob/master/Mongo_Python.md)|
| **CRUD Operations** |[CRUD](https://github.com/nkpydev/Learning-MongoDB/blob/master/Mongo_CRUD.md)|

Commit message:

ReadMe Changed as per Topic

README.md, after:

# MongoDB Introduction

MongoDB is No-SQL Database. That means non-relational database - which provides a mechanism of storage and retrival of data records that are not modeled on tabular relations, as used in traditional relational databases.

> Relational databases lack agility, nor are built to take advantage of commodity storage and processing power avaialble today.

## MongoDB Features:

- MongoDB **stores data in flexible, JSON-like documents**, meaning fields can vary from document to document and data structure can be changed over time.
- The document model **maps to the objects in your application code**, making data easy to work with.
- **Ad hoc queries, indexing and real time aggregation** provide powerful ways to access and analyze your data.
- MongoDB is a **distributed database at its core**, so high availability, horizontal scaling and geographic distribution are built in and easy to use.
- MongoDB is **free to use**.


# Next ?

| Topic | Link |
|---|---|
| **Setup on Local Windows Machine** | [Setup](https://github.com/nkpydev/Learning-MongoDB/blob/master/Mongo_Install_Windows.md)|
| **Getting Started with Python + MongoDB** | [Python](https://github.com/nkpydev/Learning-MongoDB/blob/master/Mongo_Python.md)|
| **Further Details - Python+MongoDB** | [Details]()|
| **CRUD Operations** |[CRUD](https://github.com/nkpydev/Learning-MongoDB/blob/master/Mongo_CRUD.md)|




# Notes and References:

- For MongoDB related info, I have refered their _offical website_:
> https://www.mongodb.com/what-is-mongodb

- All Python references in this Repo are regarding, Python 3.7



# Author:
[nkpydev](https://github.com/nkpydev)



# License:
[MIT](https://github.com/nkpydev/Learning-MongoDB/blob/master/LICENSE)
